Prompt: 

CONTEXT:
{context}

QUESTION: {question}

INSTRUCTIONS: Answer ONLY based on the context. If the answer isn't there, say so.

ANSWER:

Question: What data privacy rights do people have with respect to AI?

Context: [Source: EU_AI_Act.pdf, Relevance: 0.773]
in a privacy-preserving, secure, timely, transparent and trustworthy 
manner, and with an appropriate institutional governance. Relevant competent authorities, including sectoral ones, 
providing or supporting the access to data may also support the provision of high-quality data for the training, 
validation and testing of AI systems.
(69)
The right to privacy and to protection of personal data must be guaranteed throughout the entire lifecycle of the AI 
system.

---

[Source: EU_AI_Act.txt, Relevance: 0.765]
he performance and behaviour of such persons
may also undermine their fundamental rights to data protection and privacy.

(58)

Another area in which the use of AI systems deserves special consideration is the access to and enjoyment of certain
essential private and public services and benefits necessary for people to fully participate in society or to improve
one’s standard of living.

---

[Source: EU_AI_Act.pdf, Relevance: 0.755]
as they are not specific to AI systems and pursue other legitimate public interest objectives, 
should not be affected by this Regulation.
(10)
The fundamental right to the protection of personal data is safeguarded in particular by Regulations (EU) 
2016/679 (11) and (EU) 2018/1725 (12) of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive (EU) 2016/680 
of the European Parliament and of the Council (13).

---

[Source: EU_AI_Act.txt, Relevance: 0.747]
y are not specific to AI systems and pursue other legitimate public interest objectives,
should not be affected by this Regulation.

(10)

The fundamental right to the protection of personal data is safeguarded in particular by Regulations (EU)
2016/679 (11) and (EU) 2018/1725 (12) of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive (EU) 2016/680
of the European Parliament and of the Council (13).

---

[Source: EU_AI_Act.pdf, Relevance: 0.743]
)
The right to privacy and to protection of personal data must be guaranteed throughout the entire lifecycle of the AI 
system. In this regard, the principles of data minimisation and data protection by design and by default, as set out in 
Union data protection law, are applicable when personal data are processed.

People have the right to privacy and protection of personal data throughout the lifecycle of the AI system. The principles of data minimization and data protection by design and by default apply when personal data are processed according to Union data protection law. Additionally, relevant competent authorities providing or supporting access to data can help ensure high-quality data for training, validation, and testing of AI systems. Furthermore, the use of AI systems should not undermine fundamental rights to data protection and privacy, especially in areas like essential private and public services and benefits necessary for participation in society or improving one's standard of living. Lastly, the fundamental right to the protection of personal data is safeguarded by specific regulations and directives.